It's time for another framework aside,
where we talk about how some of the things
we've been looking at are applied or used
inside popular frameworks in libraries.
Let's talk for a moment about
something that JavaScript doesn't have
that many other programming languages do,
and why it doesn't matter.
This is function overloading.
So again I have a greet function.
In other programming languages like C#,
C++,
Java, there's the idea
of function overloading.
What that means is I can have
a function of the same name
that has different numbers of parameters.
Now this doesn't really work in
JavaScript because functions are objects.
So that functionality isn't available
in the way that JavaScript
deals with functions.
But that's okay because having first class
functions introduces a lot more options.
But, what if you did want to
somehow have some alternatives for
how you call the greet method?
For example, what if I wanted to not
always have to pass the language?
Well, you've already seen that
we can default the language.
And then have all our logic inside
this function to decide what to do
when the language is under
different circumstances.
So I could say, first of all,
that we'll default to English
if I don't get anything.
And then if language is English then let's
just log to the console firstname,
or actually let's do 'Hello' and
then firstname space lastname.
Let's just do that.
And then if it's Spanish,
we'll just do the same thing, but Hola.
We could make this code a bit better,
but this is just for
clarity to see what's going on.
We have, in the case of language
being English, it'll output one and
Spanish is the other.
And if I wanted to call this
I would put John Doe and
then a language, like English or
I could do John Doe, Spanish.
And then when I run this,
I get my two function calls.
But I might want a different version
of this function where I don't
have to pass as much information.
We can do that very easily by simply
creating a different function
with certain default parameters that
will be passed to this greet function.
For example, greetEnglish.
Let's say I create this function.
And it will just take a first name and
a last name.
And then I can just call greet
pass first name last name
in English and
then I can make another function called
greet Spanish, and I'll pass Spanish and
I'll call the same core greet
function that holds all my logic and
then when I want to call these,
instead of always having to think about
which language I'm passing,
I can just call a different function
which then passes for
me my intended Parameter value.
See how that works?
So, these look the same.
They call the same great
function inside of them,
but by default,
passing a certain parameter value.
This is one approach to dealing
with having simpler function calls.
There's another we'll see later on.
But just remember, if you're coming
from another programming language and
you're worried about function overloading,
don't.
There are other patterns and in some ways,
patterns that are better in JavaScript
that we'll see as we go along,
because we have first class functions.
All right, this is just one pattern.
And a very simple one.
But we understand that within
JavaScript frame works and
libraries you'll see this
kind of pattern on occasion,
to make it easier to use the library or
frame work.
Because it's very clear what it's doing.
All right, let's move on.